If you want to get a good health insurance
and are confused between ICICI Lord
Elevate and Care Supreme, then friends,
this video is for you. In today's
video, we will do a detailed comparison of both the plans. We will
know all the features and benefits. We will
see the pros and cons of both the plans. We will analyze their claim
settlement
and look at the premium. Based on all these parameters, we will
try to know
which plan can be best for you.
That is why stay with this video till the end. Do
not skip any part. Hello
friends, I am Ashutosh your personal
finance. Let's start the video. First of all, let
us discuss the basic features of both the plans.
Talking about the minimum and maximum entry age, the
minimum entry age in both the plans is 18 years
and there is no maximum entry age.
We can take both the plans at any age. So,
if you are a senior citizen,
even after 65, you will be eligible for both the plans.
Sum insured option
in Care Supreme is Rs. 5 lakh to 1 lakh.  Sum and
short options up to 500 cr are available, whereas in III Lord
Elevate, we get sum and short options from 5 lakh to 3 cr.
Along with that,
we also get the option of unlimited sum and short. So,
if you feel that the
coverage of 3 crores is not sufficient,
then you can select the coverage with unlimited amount.
Talking about room category, there is no room category wise capping in K Supreme,
we can take a room of any category, whereas in III Lord
Elevate, there is an inbuilt capping for single private AC room,
but with this,
we can
avail room of any category by taking room modification add-on with our policy.
Next, AYUSH treatment,
inpatient treatment related to Ayurvedic, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy
is covered up to sum and short in both the plans. Pre and
post hospitalization care, in Supreme,
pre-hospitalization 60 days and post-
hospitalization 180 days are covered, whereas in
ICICI  Lombard Elevate covers pre-
hospitalization for 90 days and post-
hospitalization for up to 180 days.
Any health insurance
covers any hospitalization that lasts more than 24 hours. There are many procedures
or treatments that involve inpatient
treatment but not 24-hour
hospitalization. The treatment is completed within a few hours.
Such treatments fall under the category of day care treatments.
Up to 90 day care treatments are
covered in both plans. Organ donor cover is also covered in both plans.
Domies
hospitalization is also covered in some specific conditions. In case of
emergency, if we
take home hospitalization, then up to
90 domies
hospitalization is covered in both plans. Home care treatment is
not available in Care Supreme.
Exact home treatment is not available in Lombard Elevate either.
But
in post-hospitalization, you can avail nursing at home
benefits as an add-on. The next
benefit is road ambulance care in Supreme for
less than 15 lakhs.  Road
ambulance charges up to Rs 10,000
are available for the policy and up
to sum covered for sums of Rs 15 lakh and above.
Up to sum covered
road ambulance charges are available in ICICI Lord Elevate.
Next, air ambulance
charges up to Rs 5 lakh per year are available in Care Supreme.
For air ambulance,
air ambulance is not inbuilt in ICICI Elevate. We have to take it as an
add-on. Free health checkup:
Free health checkup is not inbuilt cover in both the plans.
We have to take it as a rider.
Modern treatment:
Modern treatment up to sum covered in both the plans. There is no
capping.
Second medical opinion is not covered in modern treatments in both the plans.
E-consultation:
Unlimited times e-consultation is available in Care Supreme.
E-consultation is available in ICICI Elevate
but is not inbuilt as an add-on.
Maternity and newborn baby cover:
Maternity cover is not available in Care Supreme.
Two years cover in ICICI Lord
Maternity and newborn baby
cover is available during the waiting period, but its premium is quite
high. Considering the premium,
this isn't a maternity plan at all.
If you have specific maternity
requirements, you have other
options available. Worldwide cover is
n't available in either plan.
Regarding plan variants, Care Supreme
offers two variants: Care Supreme, Care Supreme Value, and Care Supreme Smart Select.
Some
online portals show multiple variants of Care Supreme, but that's
not true. They
add different riders and offer different
plan variants. Actually,
Care Supreme has two variants: Care
Supreme and Care Supreme Value. Care
Supreme Value or Smart Select is simply a
plan or variant that provides
you with
a list of specific Smart Select hospitals for treatment.
You can only go to those hospitals.
If you go outside Smart Select,
you have to pay
20 rupees. This is why Care
Supreme Value or Smart Select is a variant.
Its premium is lower, so
avoid these plans and opt for the
standard Care Supreme plan. Waiting
Period: Both plans have an
initial waiting period of 30 days, which is industry-
wide common. Furthermore, there is a
two-year waiting period for specific slow-growing diseases,
also industry-wide common.
Care Supreme has a four-year waiting period for pre-assisting conditions,
while IIC Lombard Elevate has an
inbuilt waiting period of three years.
Talking about the unique benefits, the
first unique benefit
we get with Care Supreme is a no-claim bonus, which gives us
50 per
cubates up to 100%. The next unique benefit
is Cumulate Bonus Super. We get
an add-on with Care Supreme, which
gives us a cumulate bonus of 500 per cubates, and
100% cumulate bonus every year for the next five years.
So, with this plan, we get a 5x
benefit with Cumulate Bonus Super.  The
1x benefit
comes with an inbuilt nuke bonus. So,
if we're taking a policy for ₹10 lakh,
it increases to ₹70 lakh over the next five years. The
next benefit is the wellness
benefit, where we can avail a renewal discount of up to 30% if we meet the company's step
count targets.
Another unique
benefit is instant cover, which covers
lifestyle diseases like hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and asthma from day one without any
waiting period.
Speaking of Lord Elevate, the biggest unique
benefit we get with this plan is the
Power Booster, which gives us a 100%
cumulative bonus every year, for an unlimited number of times. For every
year we renew this plan,
1x coverage is added to our policy, which is a
very good benefit to counter inflation.  There is an
infighting policy with this,
but a huge bill has come, it is a
policy of Rs 10-15 lakh,
you have a cumulative bonus of Rs 10-15 lakh, but you have a
bill of Rs 80-90 lakh, then
this is a very good unique
benefit to counter it. In both the plans, we
get the benefit of unlimited restore,
but the unlimited time restore benefit that we are getting in Care Supreme is
for both related and unrelated illnesses,
but in ICICI Lombard, there is a 45-
day cooling period
for related illnesses. The meaning of related illness is
that if there is a hospitalization for a particular disease in a year
and there is a
hospitalization again for the same disease, then the
restoration benefit for that disease will be
available only after 45 days.
If the hospitalization has happened before 45 days, then the
restoration benefit will not be available. This
capping is in ICICI Lombard and
Care Supreme.  Even III Lord
Elevate offers instant coverage like Care Supreme's
Jump Start benefit, which
covers lifestyle diseases like hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and obesity from day one without any waiting
period. Health insurance is a long-term
commitment, so it's crucial to
purchase a good health insurance policy
that can be renewed for years so
we don't need to change it later.
We should also purchase health insurance from a source that offers
good
after-sales service and
support for claims settlement. Many
online portals and aggregators
promise good claim settlement support, but at the end of the day, all you have is
a call center number. The
telecallers behind those calls are
n't experienced individuals;
they have only
superficial knowledge of health insurance. Therefore, whenever
you have a claim issue, they ca
n't resolve it. That's why
we're facing so many health insurance issues these days.  Insurance claims can have
multiple issues,
so you should purchase a policy from a good source
that can help you with its experience in claim settlement, its knowledge,
its real
life experience, who
knows
how to deal with multiple issues and how to
approach the health insurance company to
deal with those problems. Friends,
if you want to purchase health insurance with me, then let's
talk about the number given below. The first optional benefit in Care Supreme is
Cumulate Bonus Super, in which
we get cumulate bonus up to 5x.
Apart from this, we get a unique optional benefit of
waiting period reduction.
There is an inbuilt
waiting period of four years for pre-existing conditions, but
with this rider, we can reduce the waiting period for
pre-existing diseases to 3 years, 2 years
and one year.
Apart from this, we get an instant cover rider
which covers life diseases like hypertension, diabetes, asthma
from day one without any hassle.  It
covers the waiting period. Next is
Claim Shield, which covers the charges of non-payable items which are
consumables and are
not inbuilt in our policy.
This rider also covers their charges.
We also get an OPD cover in which
charges of ₹5000000 per year are available to us. Let's
talk about the
optional benefits of ICICI Lombard Elevate. With this plan,
we get more than 20 optional benefits.
First is Life Care, in which we
can claim any one claim for an unlimited amount. Next is Inflation
Protector, which increases our basic sum assured according to
inflation.
So, if you have a small sum assured policy of Rs
5 lakh or 10 lakh and you have taken Power Booster
or IFINE, then you
can consider this rider. The next benefit is
Power Booster, in which we get 1x coverage added every year.
Next in our policy is
Domestic Air Ambulance Jump Start, which covers
lifestyle diseases.  It
covers all the essential services without any waiting period. Next is Dependent
Accommodation, which
provides cash benefits for dependents during hospitalization.
Claim Protector, which
covers consumable non-payable items. The
next optional benefit with this policy is
Room Modify, which gives you the option to upgrade and
downgrade. If you upgrade, you
can avail any room category. If you downgrade, you get a twin-
sharing room or a capping of % of sum insured on the
room, for which you
get some discount on the premium. So, a
downgraded room is
not at all advisable. You should opt for an upgraded
Nursing at Home. This post
covers the charges of a qualified nurse for up to 10 days during hospitalization. Next
is Maternity Benefit, which
also covers newborn baby and vaccination cover. There is a
waiting period of 2 years for this, and
its premium is quite high.
Next is Compassionate Visit. So, if the
hospitalization is in another city,  The
charges for Class A tickets for dependents to travel to and from the insured are
covered. Next is durable
medical equipment.
If hospitalization requires durable equipment,
such as a wheelchair, oxygen cylinder,
or pacemaker, this covers the charges for that. The
Koval Sense benefit covers a health checkup for more than 10 days.
You can get a cash
benefit for a health checkup. Once in a
policy, you can avail a full-body health checkup
with this rider. Next is Be
Fit. This is an OPD cover. If you
require OPD with your policy, you
can avail this rider. The next benefit is the network
advantage. This is similar to Care Supreme's
Smart Select or Value option. It has
a
list of preferred hospitals from IICE Lord.
You can get treatment only at those hospitals. If you
take this rider, you
get a discount of 10% on the policy. However, if you
go outside the preferred network, you have to
pay a 20%
personal insurance.  There are riders for accident and critical
illness.
Many people get confused about critical illness and think that to
cover critical illness, we have to
take this rider. Your health insurance
covers any hospitalization relative to any disease. This
critical illness rider is a fixed
benefit. If you take this rider for Rs 5 lakh or Rs 10 lakh, whatever the sum
assured, you get
a sum benefit in it if a critical illness is detected.
So the critical illness
benefits are separate from your health insurance.
Along with this, we have
teleconsultation option to reduce maternity
waiting period. So the waiting
period for maternity is two years, but with this rider, you
can cover it in one year as well. There is also an
option of voluntary co-payment in which
you get co-payment options ranging from 10 to 50 percent.
So, if at a higher age you feel
that your policy is
becoming too expensive, then you can consider these.  You can reduce the
premium liability of your policy with the payment.
In both the plans, we get to see the people-wise premium,
but there is no zone-wise
payment. You can also get your treatment done in higher zones
if it is medically
necessary. Talking about the premium,
I have taken the example of a 30-year-old couple
with two kids in Daily NCR Zone One
for a sum assured of Rs 10 lakh, in which Care Supreme has a
claim shield and health checkup rider
added, whereas in Elevate from ICI, Power
Booster, Effatop, Fire, Claim Shield and Health
Checkup Rider are added. Let us now do the
claim analysis of both the plans,
for which we will not discuss the claim settlement ratio at all. It is a
very misleading
ratio. Never purchase any health insurance by looking at the claim settlement ratio. The
reliable ratio is the income ratio, which
tells us
how much premium the insurance company is collecting and
how much claim it is giving to the people against that. Care's
income claim  The ratio
is 56.2 while that of ICICI Lombard
is 72.6. So this clearly shows
that the anchored claim ratio of ICICI Lord
is quite high, which means that the claim disbursement is quite good.
If we compare ICICI Lord with Care, then if we
talk about the complaint ratio, then it is at 51 in Care
and 13 in ICICI. If we
talk about the complaint ratio of after sales services, then it is
at 06 for Care while it is
at 01 in ICICI. And if we talk about premium wise value for
money, then both the plans are
fair valued and their
prices are fine according to their benefits.
Friends, in this video we have
discussed all the benefits, pros and cons
and have also done their claim analysis and have
also seen the premium. Now you
can decide for yourself
which plan will be better for you, which plan will be
good for you. Still, if you have any
confusion, then you can consult with me.  You
can already thank me